So now that we've talked about
some of the common factory
methods, let's also talk about
the other factory methods.
These are not as
common, as indicated
by the title of this
lesson, but it's
useful to know that they exist.
And you may find occasion to
apply them in your Java streams
programming.
So as I mentioned, there
are several other ways
to obtain a stream.
In fact, we had talked about
this in earlier lessons
when I described the fact that
I/O streams and Java streams
have some synergies nowadays.
So in particular,
there is a bunch
of input classes in
Java's I/O Streams package
that have been retrofitted,
once job eight came out,
to have methods that
will generate streams
from input files.
So for example, the
BufferedReader class
has a lines method that will
take the contents of the file
and obtain a stream of
lines corresponding to what
was in that file.
So you can see, in this
particular example, we go ahead
and have a try with
resources clause
here where we're going to
initialize a BufferedReader
object called reader with
the results of calling
files.newBufferedReader.
And we go ahead and pass
into that a file name,
and that goes ahead and
creates a new BufferedReader
for that particular file.
And once we have
that, we store it
in this try-with-resources
syntax block, if you will.
And the reason for this is
we want the BufferedReader
to be closed automatically after
the try-with-resources block
exits.
This is sort of Java's attempt
at trying to approximate
destructors in a
language like C++ or C#.
It's a little bit weird, but
it does the trick for what
we're trying to do here.
Then what we do
is, inside the body
of this
try-with-resources block,
we're going to call the
lines method to create
a stream that contains all
of the lines in the file.
So the reader reader variable--
which is a BufferedReader
object--
will contain all the lines.
And then we call
the .lines method,
which creates a stream
of these things--
stream of lines.
And then we will go ahead and
print out each of the lines
in the file by using
the forEach method
and the System.out::println
method reference.
So this is just a way of
being able to print out
all the contents of a
file as a stream of lines.
Now, obviously, in practice,
this is a lot more interesting
if you do something between
the .lines factory method
and the forEach, but I was
just trying to illustrate
the concept of how there's a
factory method that can be used
to obtain a stream.
Here's yet another way of doing
pretty much the same thing.
There's also a
class called Files,
and the Files class has
a lines method on it.
And if you go ahead and
give it a file name,
you can open up a file,
and the lines method
will create a stream.
And again, you
can see here we're
using a
try-with-resources block.
And once we get
a stream of this,
then in the body of the
try-with-resources block,
we can go ahead and print out
each element in the stream--
each of the lines
in the stream--
just like we've done before
by using the println method
reference.
So pretty much the same
idea, just different packages
in the Java I/O streams classes
that have been retrofit nicely
to work with streams.
Here's another
kind of fun example
that illustrates how
the random class has
been retrofit to provide factory
methods that generate streams
of random numbers, which is
actually a pretty useful thing
to be able to do.
So in this particular example,
we're going to call Random--
call the constructor
of Random-- which
makes us a new Random object.
And then we're going to call
the ints factory method.
So random.ints will
go ahead and generate
an unbounded stream
of random numbers
between a certain range.
In this case, the
range is 0 to 100.
In this case,
also, we don't want
to wait forever generating
an endless stream
of random numbers.
So we're going to limit
the size of the stream
to 50 random numbers
between 0 and 100.
And I think you'll
agree with me that this
is a pretty useful sort of
style, or pattern, or idiom,
if you will, for
being able to generate
input data for various kinds of
benchmarking and test programs.
And then what we
do as we go ahead
and we just print out
the results by using
the forEach terminal operation
and the println method
reference.
Another place that can be
used-- another way of generating
a stream--
is by using the
StreamSupport.stream factory
method.
And this is a very
interesting method,
and we're going to revisit
this a number of times
later when we start
talking about spliterators.
Spliterators are a
really cool feature
that's part of the splitting
phase of a Java stream.
And a split trader can be
used to take input and be
able to split it up into chunks,
thereby being able to create
a stream from the input.
And we'll talk a lot more
about how this works.
But essentially, we
have ways of being
able to, say, take input strains
like a work of Shakespeare,
for example, as we show here.
And then we use a split narrator
to search through the input
string and find all the
occurrences in that input
string where a regular
expression phase--
phrase, not phase-- phrase
may match against the string.
And what will be produced there,
as we can see in this example,
will be a stream of matching
phrases in the input string
where those things
actually occur.
And so, in this particular
case, the other thing
you can do with the
StreamSupport.stream factory
method is you can indicate
as the second parameter to it
whether it should be
creating a sequential stream
or a parallel stream.
So we'll see how that gets
used quite a bit later
in the course.
But the key point I
want to point out here--
key point I want to make here--
is that StreamSupport.stream
is a factory method that
is given a spliterator
and is used
to create a stream from that.
Yet another way of being
able to create streams
is by using the
splitAsStream method that's
part of Java's regular
expression package.
So what we're doing here-- and
this is actually something that
we're going to talk about in
more detail later when we look
in detail at how our simple
search stream program is
implemented--
the getInputData
method, which takes
a file name and a splitter
character or string
goes ahead and compiles
a regular expression,
which is based on the
splitter parameter.
And then that regular expression
is applied to a string.
And what happens is the
string that's created
will then be split up into
a stream of elements where
the splitter string is used to
demarcate what each element is
in the stream.
So what we do here is we split
a file into a stream of strings.
And as you can see,
what's going to happen
is that we're going to read
all the bytes of a file
into a string, and then we go
ahead and split that string
based on the splitter.
And I'll show you how that gets
used a little bit later when
we talk about the details
of the getInputData method
and how it applies to the
simple search string program.
And I think one final example
of other stream-bearing methods
is another method on a
stream called generate.
And generate basically will
apply a lambda expression
indefinitely-- over,
and, over and over again.
In this particular
case, we're going
to generate an infinite
stream of Tree Map objects.
And that infinite stream
of Tree Map objects
will then be limited
to 100, so we're
going to end up with a list
of 100 TreeMap objects.
And you could use
this again perhaps
for testing or
some other purpose.
But generate, as
you can see, will
generate an infinite
stream, which is usually
going to be limited in order to
actually be useful in practice.